---
image: /example-image.jpg
title: King's Cross Church Website Upgrade
author: Brian Mitchell
description: On Friday December 21, I volunteered with my wife’s church, King’s Cross in Ashburn. They wanted to improve their website (kingscrossva.org), but as a new church they rely on volunteers to provide IT support. They host their site on Squarespace which I hadn’t worked with before, but it turned out to be fairly easy to use.
date: 12-28-18 (mm-dd-yy)
---

On Friday December 21, I volunteered with my wife’s church, King’s Cross in Ashburn. They wanted to improve their website (kingscrossva.org), but as a new church they rely on volunteers to provide IT support. They host their site on Squarespace which I hadn’t worked with before, but it turned out to be fairly easy to use. I spoke with Pastor Paul May about his thoughts on the site and he was interested in two things: improving communication and usability. After I made some recommendations, we agreed on the following changes which I implemented and tested:
Added search functionality to the site. It was an existing capability with Squarespace that needed to be activated. After reducing the size of the links and logo along the top of each page, I placed a search bar to the right of them all, and styled it to work with the rest of the site.
Added a carousel to the top of the home page. I disabled this from the public site until Pastor Paul has time for me to demo this for him. The carousel will allow the church to highlight upcoming events and news. Currently users need to navigate through the site to find these items themselves. To populate the carousel I created a gallery that church staff can add photos to, then annotate and link them to items within their website.
Added site map type links to the bottom of each page for easy navigation within the website.
He talked to me about wanting a mobile app for the church. This is a major change that wouldn’t have happened in a day, but I agreed to do some technical research for him. He was interested in working with a company called Subsplash to develop and host the app. I first contacted Squarespace to see if they offered a customizable mobile app that would more easily integrate with the content on their website. Unfortunately they do not, so I contacted Subsplash and spoke with a developer who gave me information about their infrastructure. I was happy with what he told me, but the challenge for the church with separate companies for website and mobile app would mean that adding events, news, and other content would mean adding everything twice. I told Pastor Paul that I would recommend they use Subsplash but that it may be easier in the future for content editors if they migrated their website to Subsplash as well.

Lastly, I made a couple of recommendations for future improvements. I advised that all admins to the site should set up multi-factor authentication, to make the site more secure. Additionally, I suggested they consider connecting their existing Google Analytics account to Squarespace in order to provide more information about usage. This would help them decide where to focus efforts in the future to make the site even better.
